# Image-Caption-Generator
Image caption generator is a process of recognizing the cintext of an image and annotating it with relevant captions using deep learning.
Abstarct- In this project, we use CNN and LSTM to identify the caption of the image. As the deep learning techniques are growing, huge datasets and computer power are helpful to build models that can generate captions for an image. This is what we are going to implement in this Python based project where we will use deep learning techniques like CNN and RNN. Image caption generator is a process which involves natural language processing and computer vision concepts to recognize the context of an image and present it in English. In this research paper, we carefully follow some of the core concepts of image captioning and its common approaches. We discuss Keras library[7], NumPy and Kaggle notebooks for the making of this project. We also discuss about flickr_dataset and CNN used for image classification.

Future plan - Future plan in Image captioning has become an important problem in recent days due to the exponential growth of images in social media and the internet. As feature extraction and similarity calculation in images are challenging in this domain, there is a tremendous scope of possible research in the future. This project can be further enhanced in future to improve the identification of classes which has a lower precision by training it with more image captioning datasets. This methodology can also be combined with previous image retrieval methods such as histogram, shapes, etc. and can be checked if the image retrieval results get better. And Image captioning has various applications such as recommendations in editing applications, usage in virtual assistants, for image indexing, for visually impaired persons, for social media, and several other natural language processing applications.
